### Current Context

We in the U.S. are at the start of a global pandemic combined with a
global depression. Current numbers indicate that over 40 million, or
25% of the U.S. workforce has filed for unemployment since the
beginning of the pandemic. Over 5 million people lost their healthcare
coverage in the same period that 190,000 people and counting have been
killed by the virus. The pandemic and depression are layered upon a
deeper and permanent crisis that has already been afflicting our
communities - with 140 million poor or near poor in the U.S.


### What is the Nonviolent Medicaid Army?

The Nonviolent Medicaid Army of the poor is a growing militant force
of the poor and dispossessed, united across identities, regions, races
and issues, modeled after King’s ‘nonviolent army of the poor’ from
the first Poor People’s Campaign of 1968.


### Who makes up the Nonviolent Medicaid Army?

Those who are on or excluded from Medicaid represent the diversity of
our entire class and are impacted by every single front of struggle
there is - be it the fight for housing, living wages, food, education,
freedom from debt, freedom of migration, or freedom from
criminalization and incarceration. The fight for Medicaid unites the
North and the South of the U.S. and the fight for healthcare broadly
unites the global working class.

In essence, as we will see moving forward in this period, the totality
of the working class is connected to the struggle for Medicaid for
all. It becomes a lens through which the masses of poor and
dispossessed people can see themselves and become united around a
political center of gravity, which keeps us moving in a direction in
line with the spirit and potential of the Poor People’s Campaign: A
National Call for Moral Revival.


### Why the Nonviolent Medicaid Army?

As millions more in this country are thrown into the ranks of the
unemployed or underemployed, the demand for Medicaid is going to
skyrocket, and healthcare will continue to be one of the top concerns
on the minds of the American people. Medicaid can and should be
expanded to be a truly universal and comprehensive single payer
healthcare system. The Nonviolent Medicaid Army centers the leading
social force - the poor and dispossessed - in the fight for healthcare
as a human right, a transformative demand in the context of a system
that seeks to profit off of our pain, sickness and death.


### Who can Join the Nonviolent Medicaid Army?

Any organization of the poor and dispossessed whose members are
directly impacted by the fight for healthcare as a human right or any
of the fronts of struggle faced by those who are on Medicaid or who
need it, can and should join the Nonviolent Medicaid Army. The
Nonviolent Medicaid Army is a vehicle through which we can cohere
leaders to assess the terrain and take strategic action together to
grow “the new and unsettling force” into an unstoppable nonviolent
army commensurate with the times we are living in.
