### Current Context

We in the U.S. are at the start of a global pandemic combined with a
global depression. We are heading into an objectively revolutionary
period in terms of economic and social conditions. Current numbers
indicate that over 40 million, or 25% of the U.S. workforce has filed
for unemployment since the beginning of the pandemic. Over 5 million
people lost their healthcare coverage in the same period that 138,000
people and counting have been killed by the virus. The pandemic and
depression are layered upon a deeper and permanent crisis that has
already been afflicting our communities - with 140 million poor or
near poor in the U.S. A key role of cadre is to understand both the
potential and dangers of the coming period, and do everything in our
power to cohere, develop and build the unity of the poor and
dispossessed around our basic needs and human rights as we head into
this period of protracted crisis.


### What is the Nonviolent Medicaid Army?

The Nonviolent Medicaid Army of the poor is a growing militant force
of the poor and dispossessed, united across identities, regions, races
and issues, modeled after King’s ‘nonviolent army of the poor’ from
the first Poor People’s Campaign of 1968.

The Nonviolent Medicaid Army centers the leading social force - the
poor and dispossessed - in the fight for healthcare as a human right -
which is not simply a fight for healthcare as an issue - but a
revolutionary demand that has the power to unite the poor and
dispossessed at a worldwide scale to strike at a key weakness of the
global ruling class, therefore striking a blow to the system itself.


### Who makes up the Nonviolent Medicaid Army?

Those who are on or excluded from Medicaid represent the diversity of
our entire class and are impacted by every single front of struggle
there is - be it the fight for housing, living wages, food, education,
freedom from debt, freedom of migration, or freedom from
criminalization and incarceration. The fight for Medicaid unites the
North and the South of the U.S. and the fight for healthcare broadly
unites the global proletariat.

In essence, as we will see moving forward in this period, the totality
of the working class is connected to the struggle for Medicaid for
all. Therefore the Nonviolent Medicaid Army objectively contains the
totality of the working class. It becomes a lens through which the
masses of poor and dispossessed people can see themselves and become
united around a political center of gravity, which keeps us moving in
a direction in line with the spirit and potential of the Poor People’s
Campaign: A National Call for Moral Revival


### Why the Nonviolent Medicaid Army?

Healthcare is not simply an “issue”, it is a key weakness of the
global ruling class, one that has the potential to subvert the
powerful divide and conquer strategies of the powers that be -- which
separate us along racial, gender, socioeconomic and a myriad of other
lines of division.

As millions more in this country are thrown into the ranks of the
unemployed or underemployed, the demand for Medicaid is going to
skyrocket, and healthcare will continue to be one of the top concerns
on the minds of the American people. The Nonviolent Medicaid Army
centers the leading social force - the poor and dispossessed - in the
fight for healthcare as a human right, a revolutionary demand in the
context of capitalism and a system that seeks to profit off of our
pain, sickness and death.


### Who can Join the Nonviolent Medicaid Army?

Any organization of the poor and dispossessed whose members are
directly impacted by the fight for healthcare as a human right or any
of the fronts of struggle faced by those who are on Medicaid or who
need it, can and should join the Nonviolent Medicaid Army to strike a
blow at the ruling class. The Nonviolent Medicaid Army is a vehicle
through which we can cohere leaders to assess the terrain and take
strategic action together to grow “the new and unsettling force” into
an unstoppable revolutionary army commensurate with the times we are
living in.
